Intellectual Creativity

I have one hundred conjugation charts for Spanish class due tomorrow. Conjugation charts have the word in Spanish and definition in English at the top and then six different conjugations and their respective pronouns below, approximately twenty handwritten pages of work. I take out a piece of paper and a pen, but every time I start to put the black ink to the paper my hand reflexively jerks at the task of one hundred repetitions of the same tedious task that I’ve already mastered. Learning? No. How do I make it learning? If I could just get something to repeat this task for me, I would at least learn how to solve problems like this one in the future. Computers do a fast job at repeating mundane tasks. I start by typing for(int i = 0; i < numWords; i++, which is a loop that goes through the words. My mind separates the task into taking off the ending, adding the end conjugations one by one. Then putting each conjugated word onto the correct spot in a table. This is creativity even though it is not artwork.
I understand that I will have to do this again with a different set of Spanish words which have different conjugation rules. Creativity is developing a novel solution to a problem. In this case the general solution is a sophisticated algorithm. Making my program work for a wide variety conjugation tasks requires deep thinking skills. For instance, I must store the ending conjugations in a way that makes them expandable for different types of verbs in the future. Another example is how to handle the varying number of words. The simplest way would be to set it each time, but that means one has to edit the program every time one gets a new list of words. The harder but more efficient way is to program the computer to count the words as it reads them.
I close my eyes and picture the structure of the program in my head, then I quickly type out the program in C++ and a long list of words in a text file. With a few rounds of  trial and error, the program is up and running, spinning out conjugation charts, at a rate millions of times faster than a human could. This is learning. This is finding a solution to a problem. This is genuine creativity.
Jobs of the future won’t be  repetitive nor primarily relating to artwork. Future jobs will be creative. Many may think the skill of creativity is useful only to jobs requiring art, but every high paying profession requires creativity. Jobs that are rewarded at a high level in the 21st century are jobs such as lawyers, doctors, programers, financial advisers, and teachers. All of these professions require someone to combat a problem, whether a client’s legal trouble, a patient's illness, a company's software bug, a couple’s financial instability, or a boy’s learning disorder. These problems are complex, thus requiring non-cookie cutter solutions. A physician might uncover the boy’s learning disorder is the result of a couple's financial instability because of a previous legal trouble. Finding the solutions requires imagination and insight into the possibilities that often go far beyond the original problem. Other jobs aren’t rewarded or respected at a high level do not employ these characteristics of creativity. The role of creativity distinguishes complex tasks from repetitive ones. Flipping burgers at McDonalds doesn’t employ these characteristics and will probably be replaced by robots soon. I’m not saying that these are jobs that aren’t useful, but they fundamentally don’t use creativity.
To make students ready for the workforce, ready for jobs that are rewarded, we should teach creativity particularly in the form of problem solving. The word creativity in the 18th century purely meant to create something. Surprisingly only in the 19th century did it start to mean imaginative. This new definition of creativity as creating general solutions to problems, is both creating something, an idea, that is also an imaginative, general solution to a problem.
K12 education doesn’t reward creativity beyond the superficial. In fact, for someone to program a computer to do an assignment would have been considered cheating. Knowing this I didn’t tell the teacher what I had done. I told him I typed it. Astonishingly, what is cheating is necessary and rewarded in many professions. Programers’ often program tasks. Teachers share and edit each others material to improve students education, oftentimes without properly citing their source. In other words school is teaching the exact wrong thing. Rather than using school and assignments as a lesson in following directions we need to look at assignments as a problem that needs a solution. That solution could be anything: a program, a drawing, an object. This would release the unnecessary bounds on creativity in education. Even at the earliest age parents and teachers emphasis school as a way to mature by following directions. We reward young students for raising their hand before they speak, for tying their shoes “correctly”, for reading left to right, for adding using a designated algorithm. We don’t reward students for solving a math problem a different way, coloring a picture in a way that makes more sense to the student, nor having the students themselves create rules to prevent bullying and chaos. We emphasize rule following and the idea that there isn’t a better way of doing things at the expense of students learning high order thinking skills required in professions.
Schools need to quickly shift to rewarding intellectual creativity instead of stamping it out. We should teach this by setting a goal, but not teaching an algorithm. That strategy is for the students to come up with. For instance the goal for Spanish would be to reproduce conjugation tables and it would be up to the student to come up with an algorithm to solve that problem. Mine was my program. Personalized learning and a growth mindset scratch the surface of this. To complete the monumental shift in education a lot more needs to be done. At the pace that artificial intelligence is improving, all jobs that are purely repetitive won’t exist soon. School still teaches repetitive tasks and following directions over creative thinking. Even traditionally creative skills such as writing essays or photography might become obsolete. Considering the rapid advancements in AI and examples of AI already writing PhD theses, this is a when not if scenario. Jobs that require solving a wide variety of complex problems won’t go away anytime soon.
